In this video we'll talk about asymptotic notations CVA have seen various algorithms for various functions
and various operations on data structures.
We got to define complexities in various forms like we go to define complexity as one that is constant
and sometimes regarded as log in and sometimes an hour in Logan.
So on
for example inserting an element in a queue that is NQ or push it was taking Constantine searching in
a binary so if you're able to read what's taking log in time searching an element in an early
finding the maximum element in an array order link list.
It was taking maximum order of time then and the log in the fourth most sort or quick thought best case
of quick sort then and squared.
That is Maddox are also in the graphs.
Time was dependent on the map maps the stoop over an intriguing caution we get this one so to Boren.
Or it may be up to inboard.
So this portion this time complexities aren't called as exponential time complexities
and these strange complexities are called as polynomial time complexities These are called as polynomial
so all those trying complexities I have arranged them in the increasing order of their value C N squared
value will be greater than in Logan and Logan will be greater than an RSA log Logan is less than N and
is less than in Logan for some values often don't start in from 0 1.
Don't say if I put zero all are equal only.
No don't take that.
If I take ten they are equal no don't take ten also you take larger value right so the starting value
of and not need not be 0 or 1 it can be any starting value.
But beyond that say let us say zero to infinity.
So from Richman pointed to starting from there to infinity.
If someone is greater than we say it is a greater like for example I have and cube.
And to what end is the greater good part it is much greater than any cube.
How if I take two.
So then this is two cubes eight and his two squares form.
See if there's a two.
Then how come it has a greater sort on Dec. 2.
Take 10.
So thank you.
This in Dubai over 10 as one zero move forward.
All this has become OK.
LEMON cube you dig.
So this may be one two to one and this will be to over Lemonis 2 0 4 8 seed does doubled of this fun
search much bigger so don't take small values often right.
So find some value often that is greater.
So we have arranged them in increasing order of their values or village.
Now next thing see what all the lot of them we have it analyzed.
We were getting the time complexities like bind function to getting does and so you're gonna get us
out of n some time we were getting As and square so and square.
We did not analyze the code line by line we were writing the bank complex it is based on the work done
so that actually getting these values some time analyzer function.
Suppose you've got the time complexity as if often is equals 2 sigma.
I by takes values from one to homogeneous homogeneous us.
This is our drive and so you should know mathematical form of dysfunction.
He should know how to simplify and get a single value for this one.
So if I expand this it will be up to our growth and not suppose it is F of N in 2 sigma i.e. in bu bu
but I'm IBEX values from 1 to 10 how to solve this.
So if you know the mathematical expansion of the Sigma then this is nothing but one plus two plus three
plus goes on to n this is what an enduring plus one might do then how much this is and square in order
of in square there's enough pain function.
Now suppose the pain function is like this Sigma by x values from 1 to N I introduced what I expanders
and get a single formula.
This is difficult to get we can't get exact formula.
We have to get the approximate formula.
So by solving this one we get approximate.
So this is enough for me to explain you that if you are getting a tiny function in some form which cannot
be simplified in terms of n directly then you cannot give the time complexity.
You cannot mention the time if you cannot get in this form polynomial of end.
Exactly.
If you are getting approximate then if that approximation is lower value or a higher value so the result
of a function in the form of a polynomial is that the polynomial load of value or a higher value is
not exact.
So which one you are taking.
So if you are taking lower value then you can say Oh my God.
If you are taking a put a value then you can see big oil.
If you are taking exact value then we see t DA.
These are the notations these notations are lower bound upper bound.
These notations are lower bound upper bound and tight bond so lower bound is
Omega upper bound as
we go tight bond is to them.
So we have these three notations hues.
These are useful in the situations when you cannot get the exact polynomial for our formula for a function.
Then you can go for Beagle more if you are not interested in analyzing this one at the Morse.
This will be an input to our end.
Yes you can see that is dwarfed and in the two bottom upper bond big on rotation and Omega.
So ignoring this it may be too poor and too poor in Omega.
So you're taking Lord bond.
So then we prefer a.
But when we go for lower on the bottom on when you can try and bite bond if you said no I can solve
this by using integration and limits on integration by using integration by parts.
I can get the exact value if you see that if you say that then you can go 40 down.
Suppose that he dies and then Google bought it.
So this is your exact function.
So when you have exact function you use takeoff.
If you don't know if you're not sure and you are taking up the bottom say Beagle.
So mostly we use beagle to say that at a most C whenever you are talking about any expenses of the time
we say it was this much it was this much so we want to know the idea that is an upper limit.
So what is the upper bound if you know an upper bound and we can do that work feasible I want to buy
a mobile phone if you say 2000 Indian rupees this minimum amount one like many one lakh Indian rupees
some maximum amount so then you want to know how much is the cost of any mobile phone.
Which one you are interested in knowing at the most right at most.
Not beyond one lac.
OK fine.
So unless you can get it most of the time we prefer upper bound.
Right.
So that's why we go for because notation right.
So I was not using any of these notations I was saying order and some more industrial notation why I
was not interested in notation in all the examples we have seen in all the topics.
A reason I was always getting paid Bond I was getting the equation the formula exact formulated was
not approximate.
It is not approximate so rarely you come across a situation where you need approximate in algorithms
it's not a common situation that analysis will give you approximate results.
No.
Most of the time you get exact results that he can go for a long.
So when I was seeing order off that was Tito.
But on the safe side mostly we say Beagle so in the textbooks everywhere you find it is beagle.
The reason of using Beagle and to see if support is a function f often s big off and as the last function
f often is coming off and then we say f all fairness take off.
And so it means this is a big off and s not just apparently equal or a I many guys equal or lower among
men you got TTR.
You can also use big oil because bigotry prevents equal upper so that's why big words commonly use.
So now you can convert all of them all the time complexes that we got in the form of Tita or beagle
that is upon your requirements.
All you need it and one last thing.
See these are the normal time complexities we understand how the algorithm may be working if you to
got a line analytical reserved in some other form which you cannot produce in this form then you will
select any one of these that is upper bound or lower but if it can be shown like this then you can go
for table
so that's all about a symbiotic notations.